GAME SYSTEM
3 player factions, phantom, demon, cryptids with their own reps
The player chooses from three factions with their respective color/theming, reputation, surface base, quarter sim platform "dimension" with NPC leader. 
Strong faction identities. The idea is to encourage both individual competition, as well as faction competition through XP and PVP leaderboards, which will be displayed on a blimp flying over the beach. 
Winners will be determined on the 13th of every month, gaining a month long XP boost, altering the sim appearance and the course of story progression.

There are four metrics: life (Ecto), currency (B$/BONE$), XP, and reputation.
The player's life bar (Ectometer) naturally diminishes over 72 hours. (globally reduce everyones plasm)
As it does, the player's appearance and shape becomes more ghastly and deformed, moving slower, and losing abilities/range of sight. 
The player can replenish their Ectometer by consuming Plasm or a similar item in exchange for BONE$/B$. B$ and reputation can be earned by completing rotating daily quests. 
The player will receive a small amount of B$ for remaining on sim. As the character progresses through reputation milestones, they may purchase powers and upgrades in exchange for B$.

There are four NPC factions, but the player may only progress with two of them at a time. Increasing Department of Afterlife (Lawful) standing will decrease your standing with The Mob (Unlawful,) and vice-versa. 
The player may progress with The Locals (Good) regardless, until a milestone where the player may side with The Cult (Evil) and converting all rep with The Locals.

For a larger health boost and temporary XP buff, the player can run a haunt from the Plasm bottling factory, where they terrorize NPC's in one of four randomized skyboxes - the same house in different eras of time, posing different challenges, 
but utilizing the same AI pathing. Short, sweet, satisfying, with a destructible environment.

Combat is turn based. At random intervals, a tentacle will emerge through a staticy crack in reality and attack the player unless they are in a home or safe area.
Frequency of attacks would depend on the area. 

If the player is defeated, they must complete a maze to reach the light at the end of the tunnel. 
They begin an angelic ascent, before REJECTED flashes across the screen with a harsh buzzer, plunging them down an animated tunnel and returning them to the game, 
losing Ecto and XP. Premium consumable items can grant temporary immunity from these random attacks.

The only sanctioned PVP takes place at the Afterglow Docks, where the DOA turns a blind-eye to the Mob's fight club. All NPC's are 'killable' before respawning. 
though unsanctioned violence will be responded to by Hatmen NPCs, the beat cops of the world.

New powers can be crafted from recipes. Recipes can be unlocked and purchased through both Faction Rep and NPC Rep vendors in exchange for B$. 
A limited, rotating inventory of crafting materials will be available for purchase through various vendors, as well as looting them.

Completeing milestones will give you access to  a weekly bonus round, where the player will be teleported to a skybox where they will break presents amid obstacles under a time limit. 
Here, they can win crafting materials, junk, or even rare power recipes.

I was also toying around with continuing the game off-sim like Bloodlines, without being as annoying as Bloodlines, which I have not figured out.



Website pages:
profile pages, inventory lists, journaling stuff, mission documents
leaderboards, player guide, social links, general stats

DOA site specific: Report crimes, Incident reports (OOC stuff), clear your name, frame someone, change name (if no current bounties)

Mob site: hire hitmen, get hit contracts, robbery, extortion, bribes

cult site: rituals, hexs, global buffs

locals site: paycheck, health insurance, open businesses, buy real estate, race change (if no bounties)


HUD contains:
Text of the area you are currectly at
ecto/pk levels


Donate bones for a chance to get something (gacha style)


player interactions:
Trading
banking
looting
interacting with items (DOA records, puzzles etc)
targeting (NPC or player)


PRIORITYS: 
[18:10] Lux Tesla (lxpunk): player/race creation, basic quest/reward systems
[18:11] Lux Tesla (lxpunk): then combat
[18:11] Lux Tesla (lxpunk): and crafting
[18:11] Lux Tesla (lxpunk): haunts would be last


PLAYER CREATION:
1) kharon messages you to fill out your paperwork, links you to the website where you:
2) Choose race, write in cause of death, pick a name, date of death, hit submit
3) leave the interview room and start the tutorial quest

QUEST TASKS:
go to waypoint
destroy target
collect # of items
speak a phrase


STREET MAP
PHONE BOOK
NEWSPAPER


Drop your bones when you die, can be looted by first person to interact with it (including you)


GPS system: 
tracks what district you are in


INVENTORY ITEMS:
Potions
bones (main currency, doesnt take up an inventory slot)
Inventory Expansion, Bank Expansion
Quest items (no purpose outside of the quest, no value)
crafting materials (crafting spells requires different ammounts of multiple materials)

SPELL BAG: (only accessable from race spell changing areas)
spell blueprints
crafted spells

POTIONS:
Plasm Classic for the baseline, 
Plasm Pulse (Blood Orange)
Plasm Dash - w/energy,
Plasm Twist - limey goodness,
Plasm Phantasmo - extra flavor, 
Plasm Spritzer - super fizzy,
Plasm Halcyon - calming w/tea extract
Plasm Bang - exxxtra sour
Plasm Vital - added vitamins,
Plasm Haze - Milkmix
Plasm Spasm - Let loose
Plasm Murky Mulberry
Gasm
SHARD

BANKS/ATMS/SPELL SHRINES/NPCs/Trading with players

spells are either self cast/non self cast or either